Summary Of The Paper:
This paper proposes to use tensor decomposition to jointly compress the model weights in all attention and FFN layers of a Transformer model, which reaches similar performance as the original BERT model while marking the model much smaller.
Main Review:
Reasons for score:
I think the idea proposed in the paper is novel, but some design choices can be further elaborated and there should be more experiments on larger models and more ablation studies.
Detailed comments:
Strengths:
Applying tensor decomposition across layers to utilize the similarity between layers is novel. This is a valuable contribution to the model compression community.
The paper analyzes the optimal way to perform matrix multiplication given the compression method proposed in the paper.
Weaknesses:
The paper proposed multiple potential ways of compressing weight matrices (matrix decomposition and tensor train decomposition) as some alternatives to the proposed Tucker decomposition.
However, the author didn't compare with tensor train decomposition due to time constraints.
I believe the paper will be more solid by adding ablation studies on tensor train decomposition.
The paper only performs experiments on BERT-base and TinyBERT models, but I believe that the compression method proposed in the paper should be more demanded by larger models.
Some design choices in the paper seem arbitrary.
For example, why do you jointly compress all the layers, including all the FFN weights and attention weights?
I can understand the similarity of the attention query weight vectors across the layers, but I can’t understand why all the weights are merged.
In addition, the reason for splitting each FFN weight matrix into 4 seems to make it possible to combine it with attention weights.
Other comments:
How does this method compare with previous works in terms of training/inference latency?
Summary Of The Review:
The paper would be better with more experiments on larger models and ablation studies.
Also, the presentation and the rationale behind the idea are not clear to me.