Summary Of The Paper:
This paper mines noisy parallel datasets of code by calculating the similarity between two non-parallel sets of documents.
The authors first show that the document similarity methods can indeed align parallel documents and find that the word movers distance (WMD) is the most effective one.
Then, the authors show the high tolerance of models trained with noisy datasets.
Based on the two findings, the authors finally apply the proposed method to a large, non-parallel code dataset, and observe a performance boost of using a noisy parallel dataset compared to randomly paired datasets.
Main Review:
Strengths
The paper is easy to follow.
Although I am not super familiar with code translation, I can catch most of the points.
The proposed method is simple and easy to use.
The experiments are relatively thorough, covering different types of document similarity methods, programming languages, model architectures, and evaluation metrics.
The results seem to be convincing.
Weaknesses
My main doubt is the results presented in "Section 5.3 RQ3: TRANSLATING BETWEEN A WIDER SET OF PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES".
The authors report CA@5 scores here but in the other place, BLEU/CodeBLEU/EM is used.
So, what is the intuition that uses different metrics?
BLEU can also handle multi-reference evaluation.
It would be nice if the authors could add these results in the author response.
The research is somewhat superficial.
The authors only show the models can tolerate certain noises but do not propose any simple heuristics to alleviate the impact of noises.
For example, penalizing the noises (i.e., the targets not belonging to the source) during model training (fine-tuning). [1] might inspire the authors.
[1] Wu, Lijun, Jinhua Zhu, Di He, Fei Gao, Tao Qin, Jianhuang Lai, and Tie-Yan Liu.
Machine translation with weakly paired documents.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pp. 4375-4384. 2019.
Typos
Section 3 Proposed Method: curated -> created
Summary Of The Review:
This paper is interesting, but the research is somewhat superficial.