Summary Of The Paper:
The paper investigates whether LLMs can be applied to HTML understanding to produce better-performing, more sample-efficient HTML understanding models without the need for custom NN architecture design.
To achieve this goal, the authors present a suite of three benchmarking tasks for HTML understanding: (1) Semantic Classification of HTML elements, (2) Description Generation for HTML inputs, and (3) Autonomous Web Navigation of HTML pages.
The authors find that a) pretraining is critical for the performance and can reduce labeled data requirements / improve sample efficiency up to 200x; b) model architecture is the second most important factor, and T5 models with bi-directional attention and encoder-decoder architecture performs the best across the board; c) given a choice, model size should be evaluated in the context of the models training and inference performance, as the model size sub-linearly predicts its performance.
Strength And Weaknesses:
Strengths:
The paper is well-written and easy to follow.
The authors conduct comprehensive evaluations and analyses over a range of architectures, dataset sizes, and baselines to make the experimental conclusion convincing.
The authors create and open-source a new dataset/benchmark for HTML understanding.
Weaknesses:
The novelty is primarily empirical, and the technical approach is essentially an application of known techniques (the standard pretrain-finetune paradigm of LLMs).
I examined the supplementary material provided by the authors and only found the data files.
It would be better if there were codes to prove its reproducibility.
Clarity, Quality, Novelty And Reproducibility:
Clarity: Most things are explained clearly either in the main paper or the appendix, except for the few points that are raised in the Weaknesses above.
Quality: well-written work.
Novelty: The novelty is primarily empirical, and the technical approach is essentially an application of known techniques (the standard pretrain-finetune paradigm of LLMs).
Reproducibility: The Supplementary Material only provides the data file.
It is better to make the codes available for reproducing these results.
Summary Of The Review:
In my opinion, the audience could gain insights from the thorough empirical analysis of HTML understanding from this paper.
However, the lack of technical novelty & contribution makes this work slightly below the acceptance bar of the conference.
Overall, I recommend a weak reject.